In this video I'm going to present some tips and hints for ROS installation.
In fact for beginner users one of the most difficult tasks and challenges that face them is how to
install ROS effectively.
In this video I'm willing to give some recommendations and suggestions to set up rules environment on
your machine in the most effective way.
I would first start by explaining the different versions and distributions available and how to choose
among them then I will discuss the different options possible to install the.
And would recommend the best options or Rustie installation and of course anyone who would like to download
Droste he has to go to the Ross wiki pages and the first question that someone may ask is which version
of us to install.
So to know which versions are available you can go to the web page we can trust dot or distributions
and here you can find all available distributions since the release of ros in 2000 and that of course
you can see some distributions in green and some others in grey.
The one with the gray color and then of expired for example Russ G started as expired on May two thousand
seventy.
So the color can help you to decide which version is not to consider in your installation because it
is always good to consider versions for which there is still a technical support and for which there
is still some upgrades.
This is one point.
So the second point here we have four versions that are in green colors.
So you must know that for us distributions Some versions have longtime support as and some other verses
do not have long term support.
For example if you look across the globe the release date is 2014 and the update is 2000 19.
So it means five years.
So Indigo is one of the versions that has a long term support.
Same thing for example for Russky network.
It was released in 2016 and we'll be updated until 2:00 until 2021.
So you can see for example for us do not.
It was released in 2017 but it will be only maintained until 2019 so only here three years.
So that is not an LDS version doesn't have a longtime support.
However Connecticut has a longtime support and Diego has a longtime support and we can see that the
latest version we have now Rosse building it was released on 2000 18 and will expire in 2000 23.
So basically now we have three better choices and deagle genetic and.
So you can see that here it is recommended to install QinetiQ you may wonder why I probably would say
I would like to not know the latest version.
So its true that the latest version would be the most up to date.
However usually another version would be more stable and contains more packages for example melodic
because it was recently released some of the packages could still missing in this version and will require
some time until they are released.
But for rescue attic since it was released two years ago from the time I'm giving this lecture so it
should not be more mature and contains the most comprehensive set of packages.
So at this point in time I would recommend to install a rescue network because this is what is currently
recommended by US community.
However if you install Rossmiller dick or even worse and you go it will be fine for this course and
for that you told us that we are going to present here.
I just want to mention that we will be having some exercises with total box 3 and rest and the doesn't
have packages factored in but 3 test only packages for better but Botros kinetically test packages for
all but three.
So this is the recommended version.
And of course maybe later in time the melodic version will be the one that is recommended.
So this is just to have a brief overview of the different distributions and versions available and how
to choose among that.
So the main recommendation is to choose a version that has a long time support.
OK because it's going to be updated for five years.
Not like that immediately loses which is just going to be maintained only for two years so the next
step is to do the installation.
If you want to do the installation of course you can type in Google or US installation and clicking
on the first thing is going to redirect you to the latest version.
So either you can install QinetiQ which is recommended has long term support LDS support them until
2021 or Rowse melodic so I already explained which version to choose.
So for example now you can choose this one in this one.
It's up to you to decide.
And you can select which platform you would like to install.
So it is highly recommended to install Windows on Ubuntu although it is said to be working on other
operating system like Mac OS and others.
Ubuntu is the most stable operating system to install for us.
It can also be installed on other Debian like Jesse and 64 or 64 architectures.
So here I assume that you have a Ubuntu.
And of course now something that you have to think about is that every version of For us it works on
specific version of Ubuntu Linux operating system and it is mentioned here for example now.
If we look at the page of Russky not.
So in this case Ruskin kinetic only supports Ubuntu fifteen point ten and Ubuntu sixteen point four.
And just the Debian 8 or the mean packages.
So here I would recommend that you consider for QinetiQ to first install Ubuntu operating system 4:16.
And this is very easy we can go to Google.
OK Ubuntu 16 that there are four.
And because Ubuntu 16 to 4 is also Ethie as version it has also a longtime support in Ubuntu and you
can download here.
The image is either on your physical machine or on your virtual machine.
I'm going to explain a little bit more.
The concept of virtual machine and why it is more appropriate for installing grass.
OK so if for example you go to another version like the latest one melodic go to your bento.
OK so hit this page.
We could not find information about which Ubuntu version is appropriate for us melodic but looking to
another page here.
So it is said that melodic is primarily targeted for Ubuntu eighteen point five by only to release all
the other Linux system as well as mapquest and Android.
Windows are supported to trying to get.
So here it will be appropriate to install it on Aikens you also 17.
So this is how to choose your operating system and your own version.
So if you want to install a host and legal which is also possible in this case it is only supported
by thirteen point 10 and 14 point zero for that.
So in this case I would recommend to use 40 points for if you want to work with any other dimension.
Choosing any of these three versions would be the same thing.
Considering all that you told is that you are going to develop your work exactly the same on any of
the versions.
So now you have understood the difference between different versions of Ross.
Now the next question is how to install and work to installers.
So here you have two different options.
First of all you can have.
You can install Ubuntu on a physical machine and then you proceed to the installation for us.
As mentioned here in this tutorial However this approach is not recommended.
The reason is when you work with us it is possible for any kind of reason that your system got problems
or get damaged and in some cases maybe it will start to work correctly.
And this we are required to do a complete reinstallation of the whole system which is very time consuming
and a very tedious operation.
So instead of installing Ubuntu and underdose on a physical machine.
The other alternative is to install it on a virtual machine.
So for example like in my case I am working on Mac operating system and as you can see I have been to
virtual machine that is running on top of my operating system so this can be done by installing a virtual
machine software and then installing Ubuntu on these virtual machine and finally installing grass on
the virtual machine.
So for example if you work with Mac OS do this case you can download fusion software.
So fusion done is a good time machine.
It's not free but it is very convenient to work with the virtual machine on Mac OS so you can download
it from here install it and then you will have an interface similar to this one.
OK so you can see I have two beautiful machines installed.
So what you can do in this case.
After of course after downloading Ubuntu version of your choice for example either you download sixteen
point zero for if you want to install schematics ethics or you download eighteen point zero four if
you want to install Rossmiller.
After that you will use the virtual machine software to install the operating system so you can create
the new virtual machine and then select the option install from disk or image you continue then the
file that you will not load from Ubuntu which is the operating system image.
You will it and paste it here and then let the system go into the operating system is fully installed
on your virtual machine.
Once the done you will be able to have a virtual machine similar to this one in which you can work with
it as you are working with a physical machine running Ubuntu operating system.
So now if you want to install the truss you open a terminal and then go through the installation page
and finally follow the steps one by one.
All of the steps here.
So here you are recommended to install the full desktop full version using the commands to do a pretty
good install so you just need to copy this command here.
And so you can see I can do it on my virtual machine.
So I have already installed but is going to upgrade some of the packages so you install this version
desktop for.
And then you follow the different steps to initialize those dependencies and setting up the environment
exactly like it is explained here and that's pretty much all you'll have are as kinetic or any other
version installed on your computer and you can do that that audience in a later video.
I'm going to explain to you how to get the files that we will use in this course if you are working
on Windows machine.
In this case you cannot download VM fusion because this is for Mac operating systems but you can download
the workstation Pro which is the other four windows machine.
And the process is exactly the same as the one that they have explained or Mac OS.
So if you don't want to bother yourself with installing grass and if you want to save your time and
teach your a student in this course I can give you a virtual machine with schematics that contains us
already installed in all the different files that you need to follow these tutorials.
So if you want to get a copy of the virtual machine just send me a request through the ME Web site and
they will send you the link.
All those virtual machine so that you can start right.
We weren't going to use without spending time on the installations.